---
title: For Shame
author: J. Hagedorn
date: '2018-09-04'
slug: shame
categories: []
tags: []
meta_img: /images/image.jpg
---

### Farewell to feeling

In the *Purgatorio*, in the same passage where Dante denounces the practice of Florentine women going around with their nipples bared, we find what seems a pretty typical Medeival burn: *...but shameless as they are, if they really / knew what swift heaven is preparing...* [23.106-8, trans. Merwin]  

I don't find this passage particularly lovely or noteworthy, *BTW*, except that it refers to shame with a positive connotation which I have lost almost entirely in my day-to-day speech. Sure, there's a vestigial notion of shame as positive in the adjective *shameless*, as in: "He's a shameless self-promoter."  But to say that a person was "without shame", as though this were a lack as serious as a missing organ, seems entirely foreign to me. 

Good riddance to this toxin.  But let's pause a moment before hoisting this anachronism off of earth to join our halo of space trash.  After all, the notion of shame (*which places itself on the periphery, at the base of things*) parallels some of the lines I most value from the medieval world: most notably, its kicking the individual point of view from the center of things.  The belief that truth is larger than me and requires no sanction from me. The density of shame feels relevant if one drifts in this eccentric orbit, out in the suburbs of meaning, seeking something greater.  One has shame by being wrong, out of sync, reft from a center, that gravity we are impelled toward and which we can still somehow never find.  The vertigo associated with this gravity, perhaps, is shame.^[Which would mean that shame is occasioned by the perception of Divine Presence, as in the garden of Eden and lips of Isaiah.]

We can hardly expect the term shame, as it is defined in modern psychological literature, to precisely echo what Dante intended.  Nevertheless, it seems worth distinguishing from its relative, guilt. Guilt is a response to an individual or at least definable set of actions or circumstances, like making a cruel joke or yelling at someone.  Shame is generalized: an existential posture of the soul itself.  It conveys "*You are bad*" as opposed to "*that was bad*".

And this is a crucial difference, because the very notion that a thing or person can be bad in itself comes pre-installed with the feeling of shame.  The feeling of shame assumes this as true, despite the assurance of the Genesis myth that "it was good...and it was good...and it was good."  

We can either see this as proof that shame is wrong, an alarm gone haywire which now just beeps at everything, or acknowledge that there is perhaps something fundamentally askew at the core of our relationship with the world.

So it is crucial to ask whether the continual signal that shame sends us is imparting knowledge.  If we are going to rid ourselves of one our senses, we should be sure that it is not one we use the most.

### Over-generalization and learning

According to recent research, shame seems to be more strongly associated with both depression^["*Shame showed significantly stronger associations with depressive symptoms (r = .43) than guilt (r = .28). However, the association of shame and depressive symptoms was statistically indistinguishable from ...exaggerated responsibility for uncontrollable events, r = .39 [or] "free-floating" guilt divorced from specific contexts, r = .42.*"  Kim, S., Thibodeau, R., & Jorgensen, R. S. (2011). Shame, guilt, and depressive symptoms: A meta-analytic review. Psychological bulletin, 137(1), 68.] and anxiety^[Diana-Mirela, C., & Aurora, S. T. (2018). Shame-Proneness, Guilt-Proneness and Anxiety Symptoms: A Meta-Analysis. Journal of anxiety disorders.], and these seem to take root when our actions ("*that was bad*") get interpreted as our essence ("*You are bad*").

^["*In the second year, the mother's role changes from primarily a caregiver to a socializing agent, as she must now persuade the child to inhibit unrestricted exploration, tantrums, bladder and bowel functions; that is, activities that he or she enjoys... How does she inhibit and restrict the behaviors that the child finds pleasurable?... Shame... The experience of shame is associated with unfulfilled expectations and is triggered by an appraisal of a disturbance in facial recognition... specifically a perception of a facial display which conveys not mirroring but, rather, disgust.*" Schore, A. N. (1998). Early shame experiences and infant brain development.]

Thinking about how I've raised my kids, how I spoke to them even this morning, it seems a task requiring almost superhuman dexterity to (a) teach children about the broader world without also (b) instilling in them some sense of not being enough. Education, from the Latin *e ducere* (*to lead out*), requires that we see something outside of ourselves as worth pursuing, and that we necessarily see ourselves as incomplete.  Only in bizarro-world would we be told to "just look inside yourself" for what is crucial, while simultaneously being prompted to look to media to find the newest unnecessary fashions and products.

### The thing with feathers

Shame, linked as it is to our estrangement from the Empyrean, is also closely linked and perhaps impossible to sever from its sibling, Hope. And hope is at the center of all inquiry and effort. Imagination is fueled by hope to make it incarnate. The plans for the heavenly city and the bricks.

And hope itself is coupled also with desire, ingratitude and other postures of the soul which are directed away from the present. Shame, hope, desire: We kindred be.

Shame and hope, then: two poles of the same magnet. Shame repels, hope impels. Shame isolates, hope elicits.  And this is why I have had such an aversion to even talking about shame for much of my life: since it is at the base of the isolation which I so persistently feel.  Actually, anytime I have spoken about Hope, I have often been extrapolating from a much more thorough acquaintance with Shame.

Is Hope, then, just the apologetic smile which keeps us coming back to our abuser?  Hope can certainly be misplaced, and even harmful: one thinks of Jonestown or of the Heavens Gate cults which led their followers to death promised on false hope. If our aim is to be congruent with reality, then hope and other happier dispositions do not escape our scrutiny merely because they soothed us while lying to us.  Anesthesia is not neutral in the search for truth.

In the story of Pandora, hope is the miniscule fulcrum which provides leverage against all evil and suffering.  Hope is the cosmological constant inserted in the equation for no logical reason except that the universe is senseless without it.

Unless, of course, one dispensed entirely with memory and of us with a lingering pain in the ass with the need for justice and balance that persists not just in one perfect counterpoised moment, but across all time.
