---
title: 18q21.32 (A vision)
author: J. Hagedorn
date: '2018-09-10'
slug: 18q21-32-a-vision
categories: []
tags: []
meta_img: /images/image.jpg
---

It is because I occupy  
this spot and not those ribbed  
beyond blood's bounds, the bright lip  

of my eyes and their admissions,  
giving and taking in curious elisions:  
shadows' blur and carvature. A mind divides  

touch from distance, cinches  
these with datastrings, a stippled ribbon  
too thin to gather what it's given.  

It is to ladle stars out of the tide,  
out of the squinted evening sifting,  
that I've waited to receive a Vision,  

i.e. be hijacked by another's sight, dipped  
in twisted vistas where a sun robed purple  
heaves lightning blaring up through the cracks.  

But daily to feel your eyes instead imbibe  
my face, a matter of fact, mere blip  
smiled by among abrupt the hectic cycles;  

to shrink among your thoughts' hubbub,  
the only visions these revolving blurbs  
the bulleted news I try to occupy...  
                                                      
Sights fill us only if we're cut in half, trapped  
as one raw petal in the thicket-barbs  
of all perspectives pinning each occurrence,  
                                                      
each moment's *me*, small as it is  
and infinite as it receives.  
My ringed life lit beyond the bands of sight.  
                                                      
What slender we can nab from the High Dimensions  
unhasps ripe, bearing their insignias.  
If we talk in the kitchen peeling clementines  
                                                      
or walk into the jackpines scabbed with sap,  
we gain dimension tracing ghosts, palpable  
yet, delicate tread of moons across our ebbing  

calendars.  Dot by line, our freckled cheeks absorb  
radiance at the edges, where absence & light oppose  
to form all shapes our eyes can gracious catch  
                            
and make into the act itself of sight:  
horizon's haloed razor, the sea's veins rising,  
and your face.  Your face, which love incises  
  
glaring back within my own: iconic  
and quizzical; sour, slaphappy,  
balancing my hell with casual aplomb.  

To you again my fractured gaze unites.  Beside.  
To see together is to make revisions,  
to peekaboo a future into view surprising.  
                              
Knowing you needs be nimble, arcing a divide  
from focus to forget.  Remember me when I go missing,  
keep the lines lively as you draw me in, in prisms.  

If all directions can converge on each blip  
of gridded space, and each blip stir and probe  
in all directions, rippling outward cyclic,  

then we are reliquaries of each other, supple  
of sense to counterpoise and not oppose:  
each kiss a flowering asterisk, a choice.  

What am I here?  Among the blur and bump  
and curling scenery, let me appear
daily within the circle

of your sight.  The sun subsiding,
color in the space of me I cannot finish.  
You see my blindness, be my guide.




