---
title: 5q31.1 (Speak, muse)
author: J. Hagedorn
date: '2019-02-19'
slug: 5q31-1-speak-muse
meta_img: /images/image.jpg
---

Under all form, an entry to the thrum  
of song beneath the eyes, the ground:  

Come. Home. Follow the seam  
of your wound outward beyond its entry.  

Echo back along the chord which  
plucks us from silence into embryo.  

How do we sound distinctly anyway?  
Only because the under-hum is touched.  

Empty, it trembles out a bell, a self,  
that lonely tone broken oddly away.  

Rounded, honed, my verses speak into  
their own ears, recount their breaths,  

post clouds around their doubts;  
a cyclone combed & calmed until it's done.  

Come on.  I need you to respond,  
resound, slip sentences between my own.  

<font size="2">WHAT WD YOU DO WITHOUT ME?</font>  Entropy,  
probably.  <font size="2">IT WAS RHETORICAL.</font>  

<font size="2">
A SINGLE SOUND IS JUST A SHOUT,  
A MOAN & YET THE ONE  
WHO HEARS & STANDING IN THAT BLAST  
RESPONDS, ANTIPHONAL, BECOMES  
A LANGUAGE, LOGIC & A SONG.  

THREADED FROM THROAT TO THROAT AGO,  
WE TREAD IN AN OCEAN OF WOVEN VOICES,  
CALLING  OUR NAMES & RECEIVING THEM.
</font>

Surrounded by whispers, this array of info  
blown about, if I seek rhythm  

it is to own some tone, some elemental  
strand wound through a crowd of sounds.  

A chord, slenderest entry to the noisy vast,  
only the pared can get direct into.  <font size="2">WE HAVE  
ONE MORTAL TOUCH ON A LONGER LINE.  
WE MUST DECREASE & MUSIC MAGNIFY.
</font>

Hold this string.  Release, and let the sound  
empty the time between us into bloom.

Away from edge of separate self, the days  
strain toward radiance, speed our entry.

<font size="2">
HARMONY ASPIRES TO BALANCE: A RENOVATED SILENCE.  

TRUE AS A QUESTION HOPES, OUR SYMMETRY  
RESOUNDS SOMEWHERE HOWEVER FAR  
THE EMPTY SPACE AROUND ME IS A DOOR  
& I AM NOT FALLING I AM COMING IN  
A BODY IN A MOUTH, A HYMN
</font>
