---
title: Spine
author: J. Hagedorn
date: '2019-09-06'
slug: spine
meta_img: /images/image.jpg
---






---

What makes the stalk unfold symmetrically?
What intelligence within, contemplating itself,
then turns into direction?

Each stalk, trunk, spine, a trellis
on which petals, arms, eyes bud.

Leaves.

I,
spine, stalk,

The English (Czech, Corsican) first-person pronoun 
Axis on which limbs grow, unshared by others

Such a separate way of writing the self,
as if viewed from without, a column.

In the algorithm which governs growth
of hands, facial symmetry, &c.

there is some starting point for the spine's seed,
akin to 0,0 on a Cartesian grid

But if we are to be a part of the body of the community,
can the central point be within us?
the spine around which we cohere?

"...ancient usage gave the word soul a rather differnt meaning.  The essence of the soul was not so much to be conscious as to govern the formation of the body..." - Santayana (1910), *Three Philosophical Poets*

[In frog eggs, the entry of the sperm redefines the dorso-ventral axis opposite the sperm's entry point]

We are created by the touch of something outside, 
and grow toward it

Not a pillar, not a monument: a column reaching toward others.

Treelike, to focus on a single line, a curvature.  Which cannot be re-drawn.

"Life is simple.  One makes maybe one or two moves, and that is the end." WCW, *Spring and All*

"when your eye is single, your whole body is full of light" - Luke 11:34

Seeded by elsewhere, eternity.  We need something outside of us.  cf. Gregory of Sinai, "If we do not know what we were like when God made us, we will not realize what sin has turned us into."

The spine also creaks beneath accumulated weight of reaching, growth,

to recede into the shadowy base of me.

Augustine's diagnosis of our state: *Incurvatus in se*, we are bent in upon ourselves.

"the transgression of the commandment was making them turn back again according to their nature; and as they had at the beginning come into being out of non-existence, so were they now on the way to returning, through corruption, to non-existence again." - Athanasius, *On the Incarnation* Ch.1.4

when we swerve from *logos* 

What pulls us up from Kali Yuga, what preserves from entropy,

We come from nothing,
journey from no to yes.

[SHH: The sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling molecule assumes various roles in patterning the central nervous system (CNS) during vertebrate development. One of the most characterized functions of SHH is its role in the induction of the floor plate and diverse ventral cell types within the neural tube.[32] The notochord, a structure derived from the axial mesoderm, produces SHH, which travels extracellularly to the ventral region of the neural tube and instructs those cells to form the floor plate.[33] Another view for floor plate induction hypothesizes that some precursor cells located in the notochord are inserted into the neural plate before its formation, later giving rise to the floor plate.  Sonic hedgehog is secreted at the zone of polarizing activity, which is located on the posterior side of a limb bud in an embryo.]

[Form: Randomly selected word, moving through the sentence toward its opposite pole]


