---
title: 11q13.2 (Credo)
author: J. Hagedorn
date: '2019-03-16'
slug: 11q13-2-credo
meta_img: /images/image.jpg
---

To be clear.  I'm not sure how  
belief is different than hypothesis,  
except it weighs me in the balance.  

<font size="2">JUST GO.</font>  And what if I leave  
some out?  <font size="2">YOU WILL.</font>  Okay then, I believe:  

The hidden green wings of the orange tree.  

Solace and urge of camouflage.  The seed-  
clouds wrung in gold from cypress, palsied  

from ache of spring.  <font size="2">TO BE  
IS FURTHER THAN TO THINK.</font>  I know, and cleave  

to thoughts which harness our perceived  
edifice of earth to drift and dream.   

With words, within words, I believe  
in human gestures tangling soil and breeze,  
possessed by distance:  <font size="2">BREATHE,  

& STAND INTO THE GROUND.  
I FOLLOW THE WEARING LIPS  

OF MARBLE STEPS: PEOPLE & ALL  
THEIR DESTINATIONS EVEN  

MY ERRANT OWN</font>: that gravity  
cables my ligaments  
under the molten floor and then  

between the charted stars -- the howl  
of meadow and shadow is among me  

a shallow hole, a grail, a sea of  
wings rippling.  <font size="2">ABSENCE CAN'T CONCEIVE.</font>  

If hell's X marks the midst of me, if  
beauty's greedy tendril weaves  
me earthward, if... <font size="2">FAITH IS WEIGHT: I BELIEVE  

ON THE NARROW BED OF YOUR BODY  
IN ALL THINGS VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE  
</font>

In the compounding and immense  
space that ferments  
between what we say and all  

we mean to mean: may we breathe  
the subtle air and rest within that great naïveté  

<font size="2">O GODLIKE PULL ME PAST THE COMPASS OF MY GRASP</font>  

Out in the nave, under vasts unseen  
I bow and kiss and bow  
to some few images: accidents  
of birth and custom, which imprints  

<font size="2">
:: A VERSION OF *HOMO SAPIENS*  
WITH SPINE CONTINUING  
UP INTO WINGS  
</font>

<font size="2">
:: ENNAMELLED HEADS UNABLE  
TO ECLIPSE THE SMALL  
SUNS TRAILING THEM   
</font>

<font size="2">
:: A HOMINID FORM, CRUDE ARMS  
A TILTED X, WHICH MARKS  
THE PAIN OF, HEALING OF, PRESENCE  
</font>

THESE & SOME OTHER SMUDGED MATERIALS.

A CROSS, SOME HALOES & A BIRD...  
ONE COULD HAVE FORGED A THOUSAND OTHER THINGS   
GIVEN THE WORLD

I COULD HAVE LOVED A THOUSAND OTHER PEOPLE  


