---
title: 1p13.3 (Hæmopœsis)
author: J. Hagedorn
date: '2020-08-31'
slug: 1p13-3-haemopoesis
meta_img: /images/image.jpg
---

Ear to your sternum I hear  
the rhythms our children will reveal  
onto a future: behind all elements  
an amniotic music at the source  
hidden from light's articulation, a seed  
rooting through you: the heart in  
the wrist, hands pulse unto darkness,  
spring in you rinsing against time.  

We leave the grove with seeds  
between our teeth, hum we hear  
haloed with mosquitoes, sweat & elements:  
your mouth sopped with berries, turns  
into mine, tongue seeking a wound  
in your cheek, an opening revealed.  

I drink you immune from time  
as the boy me whose wounds  
I sucked clean survives inside, reveals  
restraint beneath the rush I hear,  
hinted meridians our veins align toward.  

Ear to your heart, the source  
of dirt's spectrum: purple, orange, pouring in  
millions each moment from some umbrous source  
within us, shuttling through many turns  
woven and formed toward that source.  

Chorus of shelled echoes: I hear  
my arteries wreathed between yours, revealing  
us and any selves mingling elements  
as one... Body. Meadow. Organism. Source  
unknown, our whirling alphabet of seeds  
stirs into our children and in  
loving toil conconts this fertile darkness:  

Our daily bread condensed from time  
and energy, cascading up from seed  
to fuel our mutual hunger.  Here,  
magic carroms through any simple element  
(*oil, currency or names*) we turn  
toward longing.  Meaning is a wound  
in us, the hole a door reveals.  

Pulse fluxes in us like time  
or vice-versa, veined & wound  
throughout: it throbs into thought, reveals  
the helical heavens, a harmony heard,  
tides in you love inclines toward,  

the song that hearing is: its source.  
Poem over, its rhythm wanders in  
your body briefly, amid that source  
material, its inverse signature, it turns  
over breathless, deathlessly seeking a source.  
