---
title: Spolia
author: J. Hagedorn
date: '2022-11-13'
slug: spolia
---

I come to pass.  

What have I to do  
with the fulness of time?  

Ever seeing but never  
perceiving the old paths of the seas.  

There shall be and there was  
and all that.  

Return and lie down, moon,  
to the cave, to the house.  

To the prayer, come soon.  
If you touch the socket, I will  
teach you the fear.  


---

Your words increase and  
multiply and fill my mouth  

with swarms of living.  

I go down to be  
called by a new name  
according to the voice  

of the sun in  
the wilderness:  

"*Your hand in the book  
and the oak are one  
flesh*."  


---

What are the heavens?  
Not only the stars filled with creeping things,  
the revolving year in his thick clouds.  
    
We have viewed the high places,   
a veil of blue and purple.  
We grope for the wall like the blind.  
    
Our Father the whirlwind passes and says  
"*I will take away. I will not turn away.*"  
    
The patterns of things look down at us  
through the brightness, through the scent of water.  
    
---

What hast thou that thou 
hast not received?

Any green thing in 
the trees sends a message
in the body or out of the body, 

according to the circuits returning  
to himself.  

Those that seek rejoice.

Poor in spirit, I will go out
unto the unto.

Ask the beasts, and they shall teach thee.

Feel after and find into the connections, 
the spirit that fills all things:

I open my mouth in the middle of your hand.  


