---
title: Praises
author: J. Hagedorn
date: '2023-05-27'
slug: praises
---

1.  

Yawn how fascinated  
we are with  
ourselves: incurved animal.  

I hope you are not so, though  
those adjectives we send you  
(*almighty*, *all-knowing*) hint otherwise.  

I hope you are curious  

that your attention flows  
beyond the infinite, beyond us.  

---
    
2.  
  
We send our trash into space:  
a form of the prayer we've made  
as long as we could speak.  

I move things from one  
place to another, and when I am done  
I move my desires.  

I want to be spoken to,  
and everyone speaks to you, and so  

I must become  
that certain nothing.  

---

3.

Few eyes have I stared  
into, precarious:  

Are they, are you, not shy of being seen  
but of destroying me?  

---

4.

Ultraviolet, infrared:  
Those registers of light  
and sound surrounding us,  
deserted of human perception.  

Whatever I call you fits  
into the narrowing band  
of my attention.  

Fear and relief, to recognize  
there are infinities immediately  
past my touch.  

---

5.

You have always been  
a figure for my ignorance,  
invisible yet existing.  

"Reality", St. Isaak says.  

And I have never needed  
to see a thing  
to harm it: quite the opposite,  

I deaden feeling to encounter  
ease, the absence of transcendence.  

When you sweep the earth clean,  
I hope you feel my form  
through the broom.  

---

6.

Is the world of odds and ends  
your body apprehending me?  

I walk in the crease of your hand.  

My senses blind, a cane  
you prod me with:  

the same, small alphabet of rays  
and edges in rhythm.  

---

7.

I want to widen the words  
approaching you, the apertures through  
which you beckon.  

Languages die daily, whole  
lattices of worlds.  

We yearn to summarize, to constrain.  

Unto death it seems I must wrestle  
against certainty,  
which is a shape of death.  

Still as sleep.  Clean as crossroads.  

---

8.

Perhaps machines will pare   
our language down to one  
of number--

even so, there is  
a grammar of relationship,  
formulas and algorithms.  

Perhaps they will find your faces:  
the shapes you love, the grace  
of local symmetry.  

Perhaps they can make us  
a philosophy specific to each object.  

---

9.

Hard to speak without  
some whisper of love, without inhabiting  
the listener.  

I speak, rehearsing your hearing.  

If I hear myself I must know myself,  
and know you, the world woven in me:  

must already have heard  
you speaking here.  

A bird knows the response before she sings,  
and sings because the song  

knits us from mouth, to ear, to mouth.  

---

10.

The old stories imagine you  
with many eyes & mouths & ears & yet  

what use is it to say you are beyond  
material, when even a string  

vaults our understanding?  

A parsing of flames we can't articulate  
with tongues or thumbs.  

---

11.

If not silence, a listening speech  
a sight seen through, a wounded touch  
me filled with you:  

The dance of the self in  
the world in the self.  

---

12.

Light, you spill  
yourself from some abundant core  
I cannot fathom, like the soil.  

The braids are overlaid:  Death  
rounds the corner into  
life, the ear is a mouth.  

---

13.

These seconds I scarcely sense  
you: everything eddying, rancid hint of spring.  

I fashion diagrams, talismans  
to quell fear at the expense  

of moment.  

---

14.

I've wanted to know you like an answer.  

The stem and stamen named, the cell  
whose membrane can be drawn.  

A curtain.  You.  And me.  

Though the cells converse among us,  

though I cannot find the verge  
of my touch and your body.  

---

15.

I've wanted to use you like a term,  
which comes from *terminus*, or end.  

I've wanted you to end, although  
the word you give is born continually,  

a spiral ratio, a phoenix, *ouroboros*.  

---

16.

I've wanted to be smudged  
from the articulated earth,  
unreconciled,  

and to make sense,  
simple as elements  

known in an instant, and also patiently  
across my inconsistencies  

as I have tried to taste you, plain  
as bread and wine from  
raucous kitchens.  

---

17.

Silly and lonely, to propel myself  
daily again against your chest.  

You are edgeless when  
I need an edge to grasp.  

The ferns darken and clench.  

You chase me.  I retreat  
into the spaces where you wait.

---

18.

I perceive little, remember less.  
By the time I confess my mistakes  

have that digitized look,  
blurry as plans.  

But I really believe in you, reality.  
Each swerve, each syllable  

is tattooed on your skin, indelible:  
each mixed motive, each small  

negligence hidden without  
courage or attention.  

---

19.

"Planning for my future" mostly means  
a self slenderly known, projected on  
a world barely seen.  

I can't believe in a heaven reached by subtraction.  

Fingers round my ribs, I'm still learning  
to hold, with the unconsuming fire  
of love, my sins.  

---

20.

Obliquely you formed me, the center  
outside my body, only to rest  

when I have disappeared into the lives  
of each I love,  

since my mother nudged  
me from my first birth.  

---

21.

You propped us up erect  
with vulnerable bellies  
and tender genitals we try  
to hide with clothes and homes:  

all sensible.  

A crucifix absurdly seems to say  
against our instincts you intend  
us gangly to be stretched,  
prepared for comic flight.  

And yet a child grows:  

the spine delves up, and limbs unfold  
to seek and hope  
to love and to survive  
love.  

---

22.

Sycamores plotted evenly along  
the sidewalk rearrange, tucked in  
the creased dimensions of my brain.  

You are outside and inside  
each eye that greets me,  
a clearing.  

Our physics pictures you folded,  
distances grazing and mingling  
as roots tangle  

neurons and veins,  
rivers carrying the loss  
of each rejuvenation.  

---

23.

These thoughts and words  
swirl and clot in me as in others  

and are not mine any more  
than the hand is an invention--  

the hand which shapes the mind  
as firmly as those spirits  

who hem me, in this conversation  
between past and future.  

---

24.

You have been waiting  
for me, outside my house,  
my clothes, my metaphors,  

just past this sentence:  

I have never been at home, only  
so painstakingly close  
I can barely convince myself to move.  

---

25.

How far are you?  

Only the span from  
delusion to body.  

Naked in a garden,  
we put on distance  

you searched us through.  

---

26.

Analog: according to your word  
the forest inhales me, the sun sees. All  
the sensuous reflections cycle  
among us, continuous.  

Is it easier not to be immersed,  
to live beside the flowing world?  

What have I been singing about, each Spring?  

Something about the union of sky and earth,  
the sky inside the earth.  

---

27.

Does what I aspire to be  
cling to me somehow?  

The next moment becomes  
the new world, tinged  
with the hopes I wash in.  

Is hope the pattern you plant in me?  
Moss grown on the hearkening  
side of stone.  

---

28.

You are disclosed  
among and in us -- mundane hum  
of appliances, mulch-click  
and nut-fall, background radiance.  

Each unnoticed all,  
those pauses in our pageantry  
the boring world invisibly sustains.  

I follow you around by sitting still.  

---

29.

If you are love, you broke  
my heart  
across these many bodies  

and have never abandoned  
me, except  
to the vastness of others.  

I don't know if I bow  
the right way,  
only away.  

---

30.  


